Dear Governor Polis,

I am writing today because I know that the state is facing two massive problems. One is the tremendous budget shortfall that is predicted as a result of the states response to COVID-19. The other is the problem of police brutality and the intricately related problem of prosecutorial over and under-reach, especially with regards to Black people, a problem that exists in Colorado as much as others. While Black people are a minority in Colorado, they are disproportionately represented in our prisons and jails. When Colorado had a death row (and thank you for your work in abolishing the death penalty in our state), our death row was 100% composed of Black men. 

I was proud to have voted for a governor who stood up and said that this extreme disproportion in results was evidence of unequal treatment under the law. That same disproportion exists at every level of our criminal justice system.

There are no simple solutions to either of these problems, but I believe it is time for radical criminal justice reform.

Here are several money-saving legislative suggestions that have my enthusiastic and unwavering support.

•	End cash bail. Holding people awaiting trial is an enormous expense to the state, a terrible disruption of their lives, and increases the risk of COVID-19 spread.
•	End all state funding for policing. (I recognize there is a local component to this as well, but we are in a budget crisis, and it is a terrible waste of money to pay so much money to have our civil rights violated.)
•	Abolish prisons. The Colorado State budget currently allocates $988,046,445 to the Department of Corrections, which manages prisons and parole. This is a lot of money to spend on racial discrimination.

In addition to legislative suggestions, I note that as governor, you have the ability in your capacity as executive to bring about many of these results on your own. Simply commute the sentences of every person currently in prison, and everyone on parole, and you will be able to recapture a large percentage of the Corrections budget for better uses. As governor, you could also announce that you plan to commute the sentence of every person currently awaiting trial, and while some jurisdictions might insist on going through the rigmarole of a trial, others might simply decide not to do so, thus saving the state an enormous amount of money in prosecution.

Let me be clear: I think it’s important to save this money, but I think it’s more important to end cash bail, abolish policing as we currently know it, and to abolish prisons.

Sincerely,